# RavenDB on the Cloud: Control Panel
---

{NOTE: }

You can manage your instances using a Control Panel that comprises four tabs:  
Products, Billing, Support and Account.  

* In this page:  
  * [Products Tab](../cloud/cloud-control-panel#products-tab)  
  * [Billing Tab](../cloud/cloud-control-panel#billing-tab)  
  * [Support Tab](../cloud/cloud-control-panel#support-tab)  
{NOTE/}

---

{PANEL: Control Panel}

###Products Tab

You can use the Products tab to either provision a new instance, or manage an existing one.  

* Creating a new instance  
  Entering the Products tab and clicking the Add Product button, opens a comfortable wizard that walks you through the 
  four stages of creating your cluster:  
   * Choosing a plan  
     Here you can choose your cloud provider, and run an instance that belongs to one of three tiers, each with its own 
     configurations and capabilities.
      * A [Free]() instance, designed for experiments and evaluation.  
      * A [Development]() instance, equipped with all options and designed for development but not production.  
      * A [Production]() instance, that can be custom-tailored to fit most production environments.  

   * Billing preferences  
     Provide your personal details and payment method here, or click "Later" if you prefer the free plan in order to 
     evaluate our cloud service.  

   * Product customization  
     Use these options to customize your instance, You'll be able to edit your choices whenever you want from the 
     Control Panel.  

      * Choose a Display Name by which the new instance would appear in your products list.  
      * Select Allowed IPs.  
        Clients would be allowed to connect your database instance only from these addresses.  
       {NOTE: }
        The default setting, 0.0.0.0/0, grants access to **all** IP addresses.  
        We recommend that you **change it** to enhance your security.  
        Restrict access to your database only to allowed addresses. 
       {NOTE/}

   * Summarizing it all  
     Review your choices, go back to edit hem or confirm and create the new instance.  


* Product Security  
  Accessing your database instance is always via HTTPS and mutual authentication: your database identifies itself to your 
  client, and the client to your database.  
  A certificate is automatically generated by the setup procedure when you create your cluster, that your clients would be 
  able to access the database with.  
  There is only one level of certificate, [Cluster Admin]( server/security/authorization/security-clearance-and-permissions#cluster-admin). 
  Any client that you provide with it would have full access and management permissions to your database.  

    {NOTE: }
     Your certificate is kept in your account.  
     To retrieve it, open the Products page and click "Download Certificate". 
    {NOTE/}

    {NOTE: }
     We recommend that you generate and use **different certificates** for your applications.  
    {NOTE/}

    {NOTE: }
     If you use a burstable instance, and especially if you use a low-end one, we recommend that you create 
     your certificate locally and import it to your instance, rather than let RavenDB generate it for you. The process 
     will be quicker this way, since generating a certificate may take RavenDB a few minutes.  
    {NOTE/}

---

###Billing Tab

The billing page lets you view your present costs, past invoices and remaining credit.  

* **Costs** sums up your current expenses over your products.  
* **Past Invoices** collects invoices that have been generated for you until today.  
* **Credit** shows what remains of services you pre-paid for, e.g. the 10 months left of your yearly 
  contract if it started two months ago.  
  [It also shows how much credit you gatherdd by using less than your quota, if you're using 
  burstable instances that can collect credit for you.] [???]  
  
---

###Support Tab

Issues or questions you send Support can be categorized Minor, Normal or Critical. They are prioritized 
by severity and by the support package you’ve selected for your products.  

Support levels include:
  
* **Free**  
  The Free support package includes full availability of your cloud services, response to any connectivity issues, 
  and your participance in mailing lists and forums.  
* **Professional**  
  The Professional support level includes all the services provided for the free instance, and adds bug fixes, email 
  and phone support, and access to RavenDB’s core developers.  
* **Production**  
  Support for Production includes everything provided for lower levels and adds our 24/7 availability.  

| **Tier** | **SLA** |
| -- | -- |
| Free | No |
| Professional | Sun-Thu, 8:00-18:00 (GMT+2), Reply within a day |
| Production | Reply within 2 hours |

{PANEL/}

## Related articles
**Studio Articles**:  
[xxx](../../../xxx)  

**Client-API Articles**:  
[xxx](../../../xxx)  
